Hello, everyone.
In this lesson, we will answer the question, what if a search has zero results?
So, for example, if I searched for just a random gibberish phrase that I know won't have any matching
content, here's our heading level two.
But as expected, we don't see any actual content down here.
However, instead of just an empty area, we'd probably want to take it one step further and output
a bit of text that reads no general information matches that search.
So without further ado, let's dive into the action and learn how to accomplish that.
So over in our text, Ed, let's jump in to the JavaScript modules folder and open search J.S. and let's
scroll down to our method named Get Results.
Here it is.
So this is the template literal that we wrote in our previous lesson to generate the resulting HTML.
Now, as we can already see back in the browser, if there are no results, then no list items will
be generated.
So we don't even need to wrap this line in any conditional logic, because if our posts parameter is
empty, remember, any incoming JSON data will live inside this parameter.
If this is empty, then obviously the map method won't have any items inside the array to loop through.
So we don't need to worry about this line of code.
Let's shift our focus to this opening will unordered list tag.
Let's try to write a bit of conditional logic code so that if there are indeed results, we can output
this code.
But if there are no results, then not only will we not output this, but instead we can output a paragraph
tag that reads no general information matches that search.
So if we want to set up a bit of conditional logic, our first instinct might be to use an if statement.
However, in JavaScript you are not allowed to use if statements within a template literal.
Remember, a template literal is created by these Bachtiar symbols here and here.
And we did this so that we could break our code up into multiple lines and also so we can easily mix
and match and switch back and forth between plain text and expressions.
OK, but back to the topic at hand.
If we are not allowed to use an if statement within a template literal, what can we do?
Well, luckily there's a tool in JavaScript named the ternary operator that we can use within a template
literal.
So check this out.
Let's select this opening up line and let's cut this into our clipboard.
And in its place on that line, let's write our first ternary operator now, because we are currently
within a template literal, we want to begin by creating an expression.
So to do that, remember its dollar sign curly brackets.
Now, in some text editors, you need to be careful because watch this.
If I type in the dollar symbol and then try to enter a curly bracket.
Notice how I got an opening curly bracket here, but my text editor automatically tried to insert a
bogus closing curly bracket right here, two lines below where my cursor was.
Now, that's not what I wanted.
And I wanted to point that out to you because if you're not really paying attention, you might miss
the fact that your text editor does this and then hunting down this error can be very frustrating.
So I'm going to delete this closing curly bracket down here and say, no, thank you, text editor.
I do not want that.
OK, and then back up on this line that I was trying to right now, I can just add in the closing curly
bracket manually, OK, so not everything's back to normal.
We've got this new empty expression.
And now let's write our first ternary operator.
So first, the question is, what is a ternary operator for now?
Just think of it as a shorthand or shortcut way of writing an if statement.
Right.
It's a very short and compact way of setting up conditional logic.
So first we spell out a condition that we will check to see if it evaluates to true or false, just
like we would with a traditional if statement.
This isn't the real code.
I'm just typing this out as an example.
OK, but right after your condition, then you add in a question mark and then after that you write
out whatever code you want to run.
If this evaluates to true.
And then right after that you add a colon, not a semicolon, but a colon, and then you just write
out whatever code you want to run if this evaluates to false.
So it's very similar to an if statement.
Right.
We're saying if this condition is true, do this or else otherwise do this.
So for now, the question is what should our condition be?
Well, why don't we just check to see if the incoming JSON data has any items in the array?
Let me show you what I mean.
So back in the Web browser, if I open up a WordPress rest API neutral like this.
So here's the root of my URL and then if I add on WP, JSON, WP, V, two posts and then if I search
for just random gibberish that won't have any results.
Notice that WordPress only responds with a completely empty array, whereas on the other hand, if the
search actually did have results, we'd see a bunch of JSON data here.
So back in our code, all we need to do for the condition is just say remember our parameter name posts
that will contain any JSON data that WordPress responds with.
And then in JavaScript, every array has a property named length and length will tell you how many items
live inside the array.
So if this is zero, if there are no items in the array, well, the number zero always evaluates to
false.
And in just about every programming language in the world, any number larger than zero evaluates to
true.
So this is all we need for the condition check.
Now, let's just spell out what we want to do, if it's true or if it's false.
So if the condition is true, let's delete the placeholder.
Yay!
And instead let's just output a pair of single quotes.
And within the quotes we can just paste in our clipboard, write, we want to output that opening unordered
list tag.
However, if our condition is false, let's delete this placeholder name and open up a pair of single
quotes and let's just output an HTML paragraph that reads No general information matches that search.
OK, now before we save this, let's deal with the closing unordered list tag.
So down here, let's just delete this line and sort of do the same thing.
So let's open up an expression within our overall template, literal, and let's set up another quick
ternary operator.
Right.
A bit of conditional logic.
So for the condition, we'll say if our posts array has a length of greater than zero, if that's the
case, do something, otherwise do something else.
So if that's true, let's just output a closing unordered list.
But if it's not true, let's just output nothing.
So just an empty pair of quotations.
OK, so let's give this a save and test it out.
So if I search for lorem, as in lorem ipsum, I know that should have plenty of results.
Perfect.
Here they are.
But if I search for something that doesn't make any sense, we see no general information matches that
search perfect.
And at this point, that means we've answered the main question for this lesson.
What if a search has zero results?
Now let's spend the remainder of this lesson making a few miscellaneous improvements to our search.
So, for example, the first thing that I want to fix is you'll notice that if I try to perform another
search after I've already performed, one noticed that the loader spinner icon does not immediately
reappear.
We would expect it to appear the millisecond I push a new key for a new search.
So to fix this issue, all we need to do is back in our JavaScript right after this section of code
where we are using the HTML method to modify the results div.
So right after the back tick and then the parentheses in the semicolon.
But notice my cursor is still within the Jason method right here.
Let's just set the is Spiner visible property to false.
Right, because as soon as this code runs that will replace or hide the Spiner.
So let's save this and give it a try by search for Lorem.
Here's the results, but now the millisecond I start searching for something else, we see the loader
spinner icon.
Perfect.
All right, changing gears.
The next thing I want to work on is making sure that the rest epicentral that we are using to actually
perform the search.
I want to make sure that this Eurail is relative instead of absolute.
Now, what do I mean by that?
Well, this you, Earl, is only going to work if I'm using my local prevue proxy server that begins
with localhost three thousand.
What if instead I was using my DEVE domain of fictional university dev?
Or better yet, what will happen when I try to deploy these files to a real live server with a real
dot com?
Well, the answer is that this uttara will fail miserably, right, because this Uttara won't really
exist in that context.
So the question becomes, how can we make the beginning part of this URL flexible so that it works regardless
of the current environment or so that it works if we want to distribute this theme to many, many websites
and users.
Now, your first instinct might be to just delete the beginning http route, part of the euro like this,
just beginning with the forward slash of what you want to add on.
And this will indeed work for certain situations and certain websites.
However, not all WordPress installations are located at the root of a domain.
So this is not very flexible and it won't work for everyone in every situation.
So instead, let me show you what I recommend.
So right now within our theme folder, let's jump into the file named functions
and let's scroll down to our function named university files.
Remember, this is the function where we load CSC in JavaScript files within WordPress.
And right now I just want to add a new line to this function.
Let's add the new line down towards the bottom of this function.
So just for visual separation down here and also because I want to be able to reference the nickname
of our main JavaScript file.
So I want the new line of code to come after all of that right about here.
But notice, I'm still within the overall university files function that doesn't end until right here.
So right where my cursor is down here, let's say let me scroll down a bit.
Let's say WP underscore, localize, underscore script.
So this is a WordPress function that will let us output a little bit of JavaScript data into the source,
the HTML source of the Web page within the parentheses.
This function takes three arguments.
So just as a placeholder, let's say one, two, three.
OK, now let's review each one.
So for the first argument, we want to include the name or handle of our main JavaScript file, or I
should say the JavaScript file that you are trying to make flexible.
So the name or handle of the file is Main Dasch University.
James, your name might be slightly different.
The name doesn't matter.
We just want the name to match.
So down here within localized script for the first argument, let's type in a matching name.
So main university jass.
All right.
Now for the second argument.
We just want to make up a variable name.
The name does not matter.
So I'm just going to call it maybe university data.
Again, the name does not matter.
Just make up a name.
And then for the third argument, we just create an array of data that we want to be available in JavaScript.
So let's say array and remember and you include parentheses right after the word array to actually create
one.
And then we just spell out what data we want to live in this array.
So I like to drop down to a new line in between the parentheses of array just to stay organized.
And now let's just build an associative array.
Now, just to refresh your memory, an example of an associative array would be cat equals MÃ, right.
And then you could have a comma and another property dog equals Barch.
But obviously that's not what we really want.
Now back to the actual task at hand.
Back in our search JS file.
Remember, our goal is that we want to make the first part of the Ural flexible so back and functions.
What I'm going to do within this array is first you get to make up a property name.
Could be whatever you want, but I'm going to call it route underscore URL and then I'm going to set
that to equal the results of a WordPress function named Git.
Site you around this function will return the euro for the current WordPress installation, and before
we save this file, let's be sure to add a semicolon after these two closing parentheses right here.
Just include semicolon and let's save the file.
So now we can test it out by going into our Web page and refreshing.
And then let's view the HTML source for this page.
So in Chrome, you can just right.
Click and choose view page source.
And if we scroll down all the way to the bottom here, we see a little bit of JavaScript that WordPress
is outputting for us.
So you can see WordPress created a variable named university data and it's an object and it has a property
named Route You URL with a value of exactly what we would expect.
Now, in about 20 seconds from now, we will learn how to use this value in our JavaScript.
But first, I want to show you how useful this object is, because you can really build that out to
contain as many properties as you want.
So back and functions right after this route.
You, Earline, we could add a comma and then since it's an array, we could just create as many other
properties as we want.
So we could say sky equals blue and grass equals green.
And if I save that and then refresh the view source, you can see we still have this one convenient
object or variable university data and the different properties just get added on to that object.
Sky blue, grass green.
OK, so this is a very, very useful function that we've got here now.
We don't actually need the skya grass, so let's delete that.
And now let's jump back to our JavaScript file search J.S. and all we need to do to make our Eurail
flexible now is delete this hardcoded beginning root part of the URL.
So now we've got a string that begins with slash WP, JSON and right before this, right before the
quotes, even, let's just say university data, because this is the name of that variable in our view,
source.
Right.
VAR University data and then it's an object.
So to look inside it we can just say dot route you URL and that will give us this flexible, neutral
value.
So back in the JavaScript University data dot route, you URL and then let's just say plus and then
the rest of our you URL string here.
OK, so if I go ahead and save this and then back in the browser, if I refresh my fictional university
dot dev website and now if I try to perform a search, perfect.
We've successfully made that URL relative.
So now our code will work on a live public server or we can even share this theme with others.
And that's going to bring this lesson to a close.
Our next lesson is going to be super short and quick.
We're just going to make a few minor user experience improvements to our search overlay.
But looking ahead, beyond that, you might be wondering, how can we search for content that isn't
a post, right?
How can we search for other post types?
So instead of posts, what about pages or professors or campuses or events?
Well, that's exactly what we're going to learn how to do right after our next really quick lesson.
Let's keep it rolling and I will see you then.